pani puri - a popular street food of india, where crisp fried dough balls are stuffed with potatoes, sprouts, spicy tangy water or sweet chutney.
AUTHOR: dassana
RECIPE TYPE: snacks
CUISINE: indian
SERVES: 4-5
INGREDIENTS (measuring cup used, 1 cup = 250 ml)
other ingredients:

    24-30 puris ( you could buy these puris readymade or make them at home)
    1 small bowl of tamarind chutney or tamarind dates chutney

For the stuffing - * check notes for other options

    2 to 3 medium potatoes
    1 small to medium onion
    1 to 1.5 tbsp chopped coriander leaves
    1 tsp roasted cumin powder
    1 tsp chaat masala powder
    ¼ tsp red chili powder (optional)
    black salt as required

For the Pani Recipe:

    ½ cup chopped mint leaves
    ¾ cup chopped coriander leaves
    1 inch ginger, chopped
    1 green chili, chopped (for a spicy pani, add about 2 to 3 green chilies)
    1 tbsp seedless tamarind, tightly packed
    3 to 3.5 tbsp crumbled or powdered jaggery/sugar or as required OR 1.5 tbsp chopped seedless dates & 1.5 tbsp powdered jaggery (the sweetness can be adjusted as per your taste)
    1 tsp roasted cumin powder (bhuna jeera powder)
    1 tsp chaat masala powder
    2 to 3 cups of water (add water as per the consistency you want)
    1 to 1.5 tbsp boondi/fried tiny gram flour balls (optional)
    black salt as required

INSTRUCTIONS
Preparing the Stuffing:

    Boil the potatoes till they are cooked completely.
    Peel them and then chop them.
    Finely chop the onion.
    In a small bowl, mix the potatoes, onions, coriander leaves, cumin powder, chaat masala powder and black salt. Mix well and keep aside.

Method to make the Pani:

    In a blender add all the ingredients mentioned above for the pani.
    Add little water and grind to a fine chutney.
    Remove the green chutney in a large bowl. Add 2 to 3 cups water. Mix well. Check the seasoning. Add more black salt or jeera powder or chaat masala if required. If you want a thin pani, you could add some water. But keep on checking the seasoning, as per your taste.
    Add the boondi to the pani.
    You can chill the pani in the fridge or add some ice cubes to it..

Assembling Pani Puri:

    Crack the top of the puri with a spoon.
    Add 2 to 3 tsp of the boiled potato-onion filling in the poori.
    Stir the green pani first and then it and the sweet chutney as per your taste.
    Serve the pani puri immediately.
    You can also make individual portions with the puris, potato-onion mixture and the pani. Let the individual assemble the pani puri for himself/herself as per his/her taste.

NOTES
* other stuffing combinations or a combination of these:
steamed moong sprouts
boiled white chickpeas (kabuli chana)
boiled black chickpeas (kala chana)
boiled potatoes
chopped onions
chopped coriander leaves
ragda - a dry white peas preparation

* to make the pani hot and spicy, you can add one more green chili.